hello guys and welcome to my channel I
have a guest today hi Michael
I'm Maggie man Michael is going to tell
us everything about SAT test SAT is a
test that you need to take in order to
get admitted to American universities
it's basically the test that all of the
majority of Americans yep to graduate
high school and to get admitted into
universities so if you're dreaming of
getting your bachelor's degree in the
States
this is something you have to go through
so Michael could you please tell us what
is SAT test the CT is a test of mostly
your math skills and your English skills
and your English skills are not spoken
English or I don't know your ability to
understand the English is just about
reading and about writing and writing is
tested somewhat and usually you don't
have to write your own text you have to
edit somebody else you have to choose
the best option out of those so it's a
multiple choice test so it has nothing
to do with like biology chemistry or
anything question those are SAT
Subject Tests they are different you
choose them you don't have to take them
so those are different tests we are not
discussing those and the SAT general is
just math reading and
language so very rarely with
universities ask you to take a city
subject test maybe if you're only like
getting into Johns Hopkins to study
medicine maybe the lowest I think you
can also do that you don't have to do
that but sometimes people do that and
often because they feel that will make
them more competitive okay just to kind
of make up I'll show that you have good
math skills well maybe you have great
history and knowledge okay and the
second question would be like some
universities tell you you can take a CT
or a CT which doesn't you recommend
actually I'd flip a coin seriously
they're so similar and they've become
more similar with the new SAT but it
doesn't matter that much and maybe even
the best strategies to take both and
just to see where you can get the
highest score they're so similar that
it's very easy to okay yeah well I've
heard some people telling that before
SAT changed everything I think is better
right no a CT has more more verbal SAT
has more months and may be like if
you're not fluent in English if you're a
foreign student then take SAT and or if
you're in native speaker but you have
difficulties with math then drop or a CT
but I think those different I think that
strategy is no longer valid because
they're pretty much the same now okay so
just yeah flipper go ahead and also
getting ready for both deaths would give
you more flexibility on dates because
you can SAT like once a month just a few
times a year yes several times a year
and it depends on your location by the
way but there are places where you can
only take it twice than you
so make sure if you stupid the test in
advance because otherwise you might end
up like I traveled to take my GMAT to
Finland because I was too late to
register so keep that in mind and learn
everything beforehand so could you tell
us how to prepare for SATs so where do
you start you start with buying some
textbooks and doing some diagnostic
tests or something like that you want to
see first of all what your overall level
is and then where your weak points are
weak spots are because on tests all
questions are equal so if you don't know
how to solve easy questions in a certain
area just because that's your weak area
you don't know any geometry you're
wasting a lot of points yeah we are
leaving lots of points so we like the
best books to get to get right now my
gooosh right mabushii is an online I'm
not sure they have an online service and
it's very good then you have Behrens a
very standard textbook yes but yes there
is the official guide by all the
official materials you can find yeah
because they would have all kinds of
tasks yeah they're the closest to the
actual class because they are the actual
they make the test yeah what would be
the second step like is it hiring a
tutor or have you seen students oh
actually I didn't tell that Michael is
actually an SAT tutor so have you seen
students who prepare themselves and then
take a month or two with you yes that
works and I also had students who
started with me so both strategies work
obviously the second is more expensive
but depending on your time
whether you could manage yourself if he
can manage yourself yes it also depends
on the person some people don't study
that well without some external help in
that case hire a tutor of course you can
afford to do so and some people are very
self-sufficient and in that case you how
long would you say both strategies are
possible but if even if you only study
for a month with a tutor it's not the
best strategy if you don't study on your
own before that so a month is not enough
you want at least four or five months of
good okay so you would need to start in
advance and yes I think the primary
thing you need to do is actually find
out the score that you need to get yes
right and I get a list of the
universities where you're gonna send
that score because otherwise just
getting ready for SAT just for the sake
of JJ taking the SAT and you know
finding out whether you're good enough
or not there's going to work it's yeah
usually doesn't not really a motivation
to take point yeah so maybe you can give
some advice for people who are just
starting to prepare for SAT something
not like studying at ice for two hours a
day maybe something else right so maybe
two hours a day can be too much people
will get bored yes so it's better to
study a textbook for an hour maybe and
then
I read something changing and
interesting for an hour for example I
like best American Essays
series of books they're published every
year under leveling yeah they're pretty
challenging but that's great
reading material you know times actually
works that's not the only you read The
Economist is also useful so actually
pretty much anything written in good
somewhat challenging English is good
mm-hm and I would also say like watch
YouTube videos by BBC CNN because that
would also help you expand your
vocabulary intolerance and because he
cannot read all the time like sometimes
your aren't you like you know preparing
your dinner and you switch something on
YouTube and you just listen - yes that's
a great point the more immersed you are
in the English language they're less
challenging the test will become yeah
even though it doesn't test your
listening skills Perseids - the more you
would listen English reading English
think in English we just have the most
important change disagreement in Israeli
earlier the better the higher score will
be and I think my last question would be
about maths I just remembered it's a
man's for what level of masses
inner-city you mean content wise it's
not too challenging there are no
integrals I don't know there are no
integrals I did not you do need to know
school geometry school algebra and so on
so it's all school level mmm yeah I
think so I mean it only tests what was
actually taught in school
in the u.s. so in most schools in Russia
they aren't we supposed to teach you all
ever okay okay so pretty standard yes
okay thank you so much for saying great
thank you guys for watching this video
if you have any questions about SAT
please write them down in comments I
will link live a link below to lessons
with Michael so you can book them and
don't forget to subscribe to my channel
and I'll see you soon
in the next videos bye bye